# IASc-INSA-NASI-Summer-Research-Fellowship-2018
# Mentor- Mr. Sateesh Chandrapuri
Indian Academy of Sciences, Bangalore
Research undertaken at- CSIR- National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad
# UNI-COMPRESSIVE STRAIN MEASUREMENT OF ROCK SAMPLES USING PIC MICROCONTROLLER

ABSTRACT

In National Geophysical Research Institute, to determine the Uni-Compressive Strain of the rock samples, The Rock Mechanics Department make use of Universal Testing Machine (UTM).A large amount of load is applied by the UTM. Currently, they are able to measure only the breaking point of the rock samples and are only able to take reading from UTM dial gauge, Hence  the results obtained are not accurate as they are using analog meter and dial gaug. By, keeping the problem in mind discussed above, We made a prototype system so that we could digitalize the system and reduce the error which occurs while measuring the data.The prototype model measures the uni-compressive strain and breaking point of the rock samples by providing an interface between the load cell and PIC microcontroller. The signal generated by the load cell is sent to the PIC microcontroller through ADC which is then displayed on LCD, subsequently the data is transferred to computer through serial communication for processing and storage. The experiment have been conducted using three rock samples namely massive basalt, Vesicular basalt and granite rock. In order to measure the accuracy of the proposed prototype system, we compared the calculated load value with the results obtained by the UTM machine. The designed prototype model shows the optimal results with an approximate error for Granite, Massive Basalt and Vesicular Basalt rock samples as 0.0109 %, 0.0353% and 0.051141 % respectively. The data is successfully transferred to the computer for the storage purpose and hence can be used for real-time processing and data analysis in order to make improvements. 
